Multidisciplinary Novel Aircraft Design Application
Welcome to the Multidisciplinary Novel Aircraft Design application.
This application provides a user-friendly interface to assist in various stages of aircraft design, configuration, and evaluation.
        
Features:
- Configure different components of the aircraft.
- Perform sizing calculations for the aircraft.
- Evaluate Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Direct Operating Costs (DOC).
- View the aircraft design and export designs in different formats.
- Configure the Thermal Management System (TMS).
        
Explore the different menus and buttons to make the most of this application.
For more detailed information, consult the user manual or help documentation.

Installation Guidelines:

1) Download OpenVSP-3.38.0-win64 from the following website: https://openvsp.org/download.php

    NOTE: If you don't want to use the latest version of OpenVSP you can skip this step. A working version of OpenVSP is 
    located in the ./aircraft_visualisation/OpenVSP-3.38.0-win64 path.

2) Follow the instructions found on the OpenVSP-3.38.0-win64/python/README.md file to create the conda environment supporting the OpenVSP python API (Summarised below).
    2.1) Open a command prompt window and navigate to relative path: ./OpenVSP-3.38.0-win64/python/
    2.2) run <conda env create -f .\environment.yml>
    2.3) run <conda activate mdhead_vsp>
    2.4) run <pip install -r requirements-dev.txt>

3) Install openmdao and PyQt5 in the new vsp conda environment:
    3.1) Activate the conda environment
    3.2) run <pip install openmdao>
    3.3) run <pip install PyQt5>
    3.4) run <pip install pyDOE2>

4) Copy the OpenVSP-3.38.0-win64/CustomScripts folder to your Users file directory (e.g. C:\Users\<myusername>\CustomScripts)

5) Done.

NOTE: This project has been built using Python 3.11. Variations in the Python version may require additional actions to install the project.

To cite this work, please use both the following references:
1) Nasoulis CP, Gkoutzamanis VG, Kalfas AI. Multidisciplinary conceptual design for a hybrid-electric commuter aircraft. The Aeronautical Journal. 2022;126(1302):1242-1264. doi:10.1017/aer.2022.32
2) Nasoulis CP, Protopapadakis G, Ntouvelos EG, Gkoutzamanis VG, Kalfas AI. Environmental and techno-economic evaluation for hybrid-electric propulsion architectures. The Aeronautical Journal. 2023;127(1317):1904-1926. doi:10.1017/aer.2023.27

Copyright © 2023
Laboratory of Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki
All rights reserved.

Developer: Christos P. Nasoulis
Contact e-mail: nasoulic@meng.auth.gr

The author(s) disclaim all warranties with regard to this software, including any implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event shall the author(s) be held liable for any special, indirect, or consequential damages, or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data, or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence, or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.

This software was developed as part of the Developer's PhD research.

Any use of data generated by this software must include proper citation of the following works:

1) Nasoulis CP, Gkoutzamanis VG, Kalfas AI. Multidisciplinary conceptual design for a hybrid-electric commuter aircraft. The Aeronautical Journal. 2022;126(1302):1242-1264. doi:10.1017/aer.2022.32

2) Nasoulis CP, Protopapadakis G, Ntouvelos EG, Gkoutzamanis VG, Kalfas AI. Environmental and techno-economic evaluation for hybrid-electric propulsion architectures. The Aeronautical Journal. 2023;127(1317):1904-1926. doi:10.1017/aer.2023.27

